{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green6\blue238;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 To compile these examples, type \uc0\u8232 
\f1 lex name.l 
\f0 \uc0\u8232 on the command line, where 
\f1 name.l
\f0  is replaced with the name of your lex input file. Then invoke the C compiler using \uc0\u8232 
\f1 cc lex.yy.c -o name -ll
\f0 \uc0\u8232 on the command line. By default, lex always produces output to the 
\f1 lex.yy.c
\f0  file. The output executable file is called 
\f1 name
\f0 , so to run the program, type \uc0\u8232 
\f1 ./name < test.txt
\f0 \uc0\u8232 where 
\f1 test.txt
\f0  is the name of an input file.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.cs.unb.ca/%7Ebgn/courses/cs4905/Examples/LexExample/lex1.l"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 lex1.l}} A lexer to print out all numbers in a file (by default lex reads from standard input).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.cs.unb.ca/%7Ebgn/courses/cs4905/Examples/LexExample/lex2.l"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 lex2.l}} A lexer to print out all HTML tags in a file.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.cs.unb.ca/%7Ebgn/courses/cs4905/Examples/LexExample/lex3.l"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 lex3.l}} A lexer to do the word count function of the wc command in UNIX. It prints the number of lines, words and characters in a file. Note the use of definitions for patterns.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.cs.unb.ca/%7Ebgn/courses/cs4905/Examples/LexExample/lex4.l"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 lex4.l}} Classifying tokens as words, numbers or "other".\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.cs.unb.ca/%7Ebgn/courses/cs4905/Examples/LexExample/lex5.l"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 lex5.l}} This lexer prints only words followed by punctuation. If the following sentence was the input from standard input: \uc0\u8232 
\f2 "I was here", they said. 
\f3 \uc0\u8232 
\f2 But were they? I cannot tell. 
\f3 \uc0\u8232 
\f0 it will print the words here, said, they, and tell. It will not print the punctuation; only the words.\
}